# Form Improvements for Symfony 6

It's time to explore some new features! There are *tons* of them, and we've already seen several. I don't have time to show you every single one but *fortunately*, if you go to `symfony.com/blog`, the new stuff is *really* well-documented. Click on "Living on the Edge". Here, you can see blog posts that are categorized by each version. This is a collection of blog posts about what's new in Symfony 5.1, like the new security system, HttpFoundation improvements, etc. And here's posts about what's new in Symfony 5.3, *or* 5.4 through 6.0. So if you want to go deeper and see *all* the new stuff, it has been documented *beautifully* within these blog posts. The new feature I want to show you has to do with the form component.

Since Symfony 5.3, we've had a nice new feature called Form Field Sorting. If you go to the registration page, this renders four fields inside of a form. Let's go open the template for that in `templates/registration/register.html.twig`. You can see I'm running all four form fields by hand. I'm going to *replace* this with the very lazy `{{ form_widget(registrationForm) }}`, which just dumps out all of the fields in whatever order it wants. That looks *weird*. To fix this, we can open up the form type for this, which is in `src/Form/RegistrationFormType.php`. Right now, every single field has a new option called `priority`. We're going to add that one by one. For `firstName`, pass `null` for the type so it keeps guessing. Then, I'm going to set `priority` to `4`, because I want this to be the first field. I want `email` to be the second field, so I'll pass `null` again and set `priority` to `3`. Next, I'll give `plainPassword` a `priority` of `2`. And finally, I'll set `agreeTerms` to `priority` `1`. And now... it looks great! So if you want to lazily render your fields, now you can do that and not have to worry about them being in some weird order.

While we're on the topic of forms, open up the controller for this in `src/Controller/RegistrationController.php`. In Symfony 5.3, when you render a template with the form, there's a new shortcut you can use. Instead of `render()` say `renderForm`. The only other difference is that you remove `->createView()` from the form. Super simple! This `renderForm()` is *just like* `render()`. It *still* renders this template, and it *still* passes any of these variables into the template. But, if it recognizes any of the variables you're passing into a template as a `$form`, it calls the `createView()` method for you. So this is just a nice little shortcut.

This also makes one other change, which won't be very noticeable. If you have a validation error, it's going to set the status code to 422. That won't look any different in your browser. If I submit a password that's too short, it doesn't look any different my browser, but *technically* the status code is now 422. We did that because it's technically more correct to have an error status code on a validation error. Also, if you're using Turbo, this is needed so Turbo knows that your form validation failed. You get that for free just by using this nice new shortcut method. That was pretty easy!

Next, Symfony comes with some nice and *optional* Docker integrations for local development. Some parts of this integration have recently changed. Let's see how we can use Docker to get a cool email catching system added to our app that will help us *test* emails.
